---
title: "Application of deep learning in system health management"
excerpt: "I am investigating various deep learning architectures including autoencoders and recurrent neural networks so that they can used for fault detection and isolation. This becomes important in the systems development life cycle if artificial
intelligence is to be used to detect anomalies, analyse faults/failures and predict the remaining
useful life of system components. By utilising historical data, data models are trained using machine
learning and statistical concepts. Once trained, the logic for data processing can be embedded on
on-board microcontrollers whilst enabling real-time health assessment and analysis. The work has a
focus towards aerospace applications, for increasing overall system resilience and potential cost
benefits for maintenance, repair and overhaul activities."
collection: portfolio
---

In 2016, with this wealth of research experience and skills, I decided to apply for the JSPS fellowship programme. I also cherished the opportunity to work at the University of Tokyo in Japan with world leading experts in Artificial Intelligence. I won the 2-year funding and started my research on deep learning applications in system health management. I am investigating various deep learning architectures including autoencoders and recurrent neural networks so that they can used for fault detection and isolation. As the aerospace industry continuously strives to improve its performance ; operational pressures expect to reduce the time required for any diagnostic investigations. Here, there is value of having many data collection sources that can be used to provide rich information (e.g. operating variables, environmental conditions, etc.), if a disruption occurs during operation. However, most often data sources are disparate. With the ever-increasing size of big data produced by modern systems, coupled with the complexities of contextual components (for correlating information); can create barriers that were not anticipated by design engineers during the design phase of the system life-cycle. This eventually results in higher levels of uncertainty during the diagnosis process (Khan et al 2014b). In this context, novel approaches are required which can configure applications, as well as mechanisms for making better decisions at the system-level. In the nominal environment, such problems warrant advanced capabilities to monitor in-service operations, record and share expert knowledge, and address critical aspects of on-board software. To address this issue, diagnostic systems based on conventional techniques are being replaced by AI-based ones which can increase the efficiency of the monitoring technology. AI-based approaches can be categorized into (1) knowledge-driven (knowledge-based) approaches including expert system and qualitative-reasoning, and (2) data-driven approaches including statistical process control (SPC), machine learning approach and neural networks – including deep learning . Figure 1 illustrates some of the AI approaches that have been used for system health monitoring applications over the years. One notable development is the application of deep learning. These architectures aim to model high level representations of data and classify (predict) patterns by stacking multiple layers of information processing modules in hierarchical architectures. There are advantages of using them, but since it is an evolving research area, its applicability for system health management applications must been researched with an aim to increase overall system resilience or potential cost benefits for maintenance, repair, and overhaul activities.


