---
title: 'Reflecting on the academic career i left behind'
date: 2018-02-21
permalink: relection/
---
One of my fondest memories of my early academic life is hanging around with my fellow aspiring researchers at the coffee shop and discussing wacky ideas. These ideas weren’t always ground breaking and we certainly weren’t going to change the world... but these meetups promoted our creative thought and motivated us in various ways to do competitive research.

A couple of weeks from now, i will complete two years of leaving my academic career in the UK. I was an aspiring academic who just wanted to do research, publish my work, do some teaching, manage my students/projects and get appreciated for my work... and i was on course of becoming successful too. Yet, after struggling for 6 years, i had had enough of the uk academic system. I was sick and tired on how under-appreciated young academics are in the UK. The research groups I was working with were such arrogant pricks who had their egos too far up their own arse... probably storing it all where their hearts are supposed to be.

What went wrong in the UK?

I could rant on and on about what was (and still is) horribly wrong with some of the professors, the university management and the whole research system in general. Even switching to other universities makes no difference as it seems the culture everywhere is to try (as much as possible) to keep all young researchers in the shadows; this practice manifests itself throughout the UK. Everyone knows about it and no one does anything to change it.

“With a career as short as yours, how much is your opinion worth?”

The problem is with the system itself. I think it often covers up an insecurity that is prevalent in academia. During my time I have been violently abused verbally for trying to take credit for my own work, having dared for sharing facts with the HoD about my supervisors shortcomings and project failures. For being a newbie to the political reality of professor gangs. Research jealousy. I’ve also seen many times when people helped during a project, only to find these lazy bastards to take credit for doing nothing at all. They were the pr ofessors favorite pets after all. They are all schemers and scammers. There are endless horror stories like this. Everyone seemed so afraid to standup for whats right and state the facts about incompetent professors... because no one wants to challenge them nor the system.Snobbery is also a problem. What makes this particularly annoying is that at first, professors inherit a lot of credibility, often undeserved (this applies to some schools of engineering, otherwise known as factories of bullsh**).  Half-baked ideas, whether "rigorously proven" or not, aren't alien to the university. What's worse, such ideas are often taken seriously by those lacking common sense like politicians. Some are merely harmless absurdities. Some are turned into political programs with disastrous consequences.

So many times, i noted that university management was aware of their erratic behaviors, inability to do quality research, their mismanagement of their peers and yet they wouldn’t do anything. I know at least one who was even sleeping with a student - whatever happened to ethics? 

Sounds like a Hollywood troupe doesn’t it.

A huge majority of these professors suffer from a terrible intellectual superiority complex. They pretend like they are businessmen who manage a billion dollar investment, and actually earn by selling things (instead of taxpayers' money). Everyone else is somehow intellectually beneath those in the ivory tower. You can imagine yourself how much of a toll all these issues will make on a young academic mind. I became numb. Went into zombie mode. “Yes professor, you are always right”. What this means for research in general: Nobody will take risks anymore. Nobody ‘young’ will jump and try totally new things, because it’s almost surely a noble way to suicide your career. No one knows how much funding is worthy for a promotion, how many papers you need to keep your HoD happy. And in midst of all these uncertainties, you also need to deal with departmental politics. If you get frustrated you are basically faced with four options:

1) Become some professors bitch and hope they dont backstab you (which they will eventually).

2) Change jobs and start all over again as a researcher. 

3) Go work for a ‘shitty’ university.

4) Change your career goals and move to industry; flushing everything you’ve work so hard for down the drain.

The option of bare survival meant I can keep going from postdoc to postdoc, all my life, perhaps end up as a long-term researcher somewhere in some ‘shitty’ university or irrelevant research center and basically spend my time alone, with a low pay, working on boring projects, crippled by lack of funding and without any hope of a reasonable career nor any hope of stability in your life. The harsh reality is, the UK academic system supports this. They don’t want to give out too many tenured positions... coz they (apparently) don’t have the money... yet the University’s top management salaries would put our priminister to shame.

Notice that, again, none of the career paths i have mentioned offer any guarantee of tenure. So basically, if you are not cut for this kind of life, your chances are not even zero - its in the negative. I tried, believe me. I tried very hard. To maintain and even mend past relationships with egoistic professors. But what happened during this period was that I spent a year with depression, developed chronic health issues and found all my interests and social life going down the drain. Towards the end, i wasn’t even happy with the papers i was publishing...

Upset with my life, i woke up one day, washed my face, looked myself in the mirror and asked myself: are you happy with where you are in life right now? the answer was obvious. I have been wasting my talent and my capabilities. These are supposed to be my best years to do research. So i decided to change my surroundings all together. 

Good-bye UK

Leaving everything behind was by no means an easy decision. I had to think about my 2-bed flat, my citroen c3, my students, my mates and especially my family, who always supported me. I still wanted to be an academic... just not in the UK. UK is just too insular in how they think and deal with issues and I now started finding it disgusting! I was lucky enough to get a fellowship in Tokyo and haven’t regretted my decision. Here i pursed my research ideas, excelled in it, had no micromanagement, no pressure to publish, no pressure to win proposals and no professors who looked down upon me or take credit for my work. 

Of course, things aren’t easy in Japan by all means. The language barrier especially is just too much at times... but i don’t mind facing these issues because now i have the energy to face challenges. Now I am excited to do my research - again. Now i am happy with where I am in life!
