---
title: 'Realities in life'
date: 2019-02-07
permalink: life/
---
The following are some realities of life that I have experienced so far. I might update this list in the future but who knows how my perception on life changes in the next 20 odd years. I do believe that some of our world will change beyond recognition, however, most of it will remain reassuringly (perhaps disappointingly) familiar...

1. Time flows by quickly, 
2. People take their parents for granted, 
3. People tell you good things because they know that you want to hear them, 
4. You'll need money all your life, all men/women are not created equal - democracy is a joke, 
5. Everyone's a critic.
6. Life is an extraordinarily complicated process, which, at present, is not fully understood.
7. The modern average person lacks intelligence and common sense,
8. Communism was created by academics.
9. The one who controls oil, controls the world.
10. Looks matter. A lot. Damn!
11. Nobody cares about you unless you’re good looking, rich, popular, or following what society expects you to do. Yes. Even your parents and your friends.
12. No matter how hard you train, you can never achieve a body like Arnold Schwarzenegger without the use of roids.  
13. Nothing really matters at the end of the day. Fame, possessions, money, even your great memories with your loved ones. People will eventually forget about you as the time goes by. You will eventually cease to exist from their memories.
14. Money is a terrible system.
15. Being depressed can make you feel alienated and like no one cares. It leads to a sort of dark, sullen quiet isolation from others.
16. To be able to express your sentiments is a skill and a blessing. Not everyone can do it. 
17. Being different is not always good.
18. The saying “hard work beats talent” is total bullcrap. Luck beats both of them.
19. The best motivation comes from within ourselves. There’s no use to listen to those motivational speakers.
20. All men dream, and like everything in life, all dreams are not equal.
21. Plans fail. They fall apart. That’s life.
22. Skill is no match for savagery.
23. Never tell your biggest plans or dreams to just anyone.
24. Learn to let go. It will change your life forever.
25. There is always someone better than you.
26. People will judge you no matter what you do, whether it’s right or wrong. Screw them.
27. People will always remember that one mistake you did and unfortunately, they will also forget million good things you have done before.
28. Not everyone really likes to accept “the differences” in our society. Some people just feeling like they need to act like an open-minded person to avoid other people’s judgement. Those kinds of people are afraid that society will view them as an arse for not respecting other’s differences.
29. The world only cares about what it can get from you. And you are quite replaceable. Everyone is. A by product of capitalism.
30. Relationships are overrated.
31. Nice guys finish last. 
32. There is always something missing from your life.
33. Life is a beautiful illusion. Death is an absolute reality.
34. Everything changes. People, weather, values, goals, priority, love, hate, everything.
35. When an unknown person (like me) says something about their realities of life, people will automatically assume they have instantly formed this image of me being depressing and having a very bleak and negative outlook on life. But when those so-called professors do the same things, then they are viewed by people as great “philosophers”. Bizarre!
36. I can't even solve some of my own problems...
